# WorldWeather
Coding Assessment
When I starrted developing the WorldWeather app I decided to use Android Studio to develop in because when I was building other apps in the past this was the platform I used.
The first step I took was to create a repository in Github from Android Studio so that my source code would be backed up somewhere if I ever needed to retrieve it in case of problems further down the line.
The next step I took was to develop the user interface so I went to the xml file and positioned an edit text field to enter the city of what forecast was to be shown and I put in a submit button as well to call the API for the city requested to show the 16 day forecast that the user has entered. 
When changing the colour for the overall background colour and submit button I had to use a matrial design palette generator to get hexidecimal values because different colours have values assigned to them which range from #000000 to #ffffff.  I used the following website to identify what the hexidecimal values for the colours I chose: https://materialpalettes.com/.
The next step was to go into the main activity and start working on the creation and of the api key variable.  I created a String variable called API_Key and initialised it with the key that I was supplied with.  I also created another String variable for the website id from where the API came from and declared it as Website_Id and initialised it with the website that I was also supplied with.
As it turned out calling the API proved to be quite difficult using java and the output of data was going to be returned in a json format which needed to be converted which unfortunately I was unable to do.
On conclusion from the research I carried out using Stack Overflow and YouTube I think it would have been better for me to use Python as I may have made more progress with this project.
